## CLAP! CLAP! CLAP! CLAP! DEEP IN THE HEART OF TEXAS

The most important thing to me about coding is that I get to create something that wasn’t there before. Originality comes with breaking stereotypes but in order to skillfully do this one has to first learn the conventional styles. The free-jazz saxophonist Ornette Coleman, having been born and raised in Fort Worth, TX, learned and mastered the tropes and cliches of country music at an early age. These tropes became the convention he twisted and mutated into a completely dynamic and expressive form of jazz music. Country music was the convention. Sinatra is all about convention. On the surface its a blog posting app factory but underneath there is a bit more wiggle room. Like Ornette Coleman, I too am from the lone star state and it’s very true that here the stars at night are big and bright. I’ve often looked up to the night’s sky and wondered when, not if, but when we’d make first contact. So I wanted to build an app that would map out UFO movement as it’s reported. Not the most original idea, I admit, but it was the best I had.

## Identifying The Flying Objects

With an MVC (model, view, controller) structured Sinatra app, the models had to be simple in concept and reflect real world objects that interact with each other. So of course I created a user object that has a username, email and password but instead of having a UFO object that someone could report, I decided it was a more robust concept to use the Encounter object. An encounter had within it a UFO, a time and place and a personal description of the experience. I wanted that personal touch that seemed to be lacking in the declassified government reports of UFOs.

## Mapping the Skies with Google APIs

Whether your web application connects users to the local housing market or allows them to report a UFO sighting, being able to display a physical location is a powerful communication device. It very quickly tells a story and engages with the user. If we wanted to have a custom map to a specific place on our site, such as the location of our brick and mortar, it’s easy enough to create a custom map, then copy and insert the ```<iframe>``` element into our html. But what if we wanted to our map to display a marker on a location that was provided by the user? Such as search results for “jazz bars in Austin, TX”, or  “used saxophone for sale near me”. This is where Google APIs can step in to really empower your web application. 
